Gisagara: The historically marginalized people to let go of pottery.

There is no need for the children of the historically marginalized group of people to take over the traditional work of pottery like their parents in the future; the administration of Gishubi sector in Gisagara District has suggested.
This was said because most of the youngsters of the historically marginalized group of people are now in primary, secondary schools and technical schools. This will set a different move of this group of people to change their attitude and stop pottery as their only work in life, or modify it along other fields of work.

Some of the pots made by the historically marginalized
 
People who basically base their earnings and survival on pottery admit that this work is enough for them. “Pottery was done by tour parents and our grand fathers and their fathers before us. It is not easy to let go of a traditional family work especially because we do not have enough land to do farming” they say.
For Rutebuka one of the historically marginalized says “we found our parents doing pottery and they told us that it is what they forefathers survived on, it is not easy to let go of a family legacy like that.”
Though the historically marginalized take pottery as a family legacy and are not ready to let go of it, they are not happy with the results they get from it.
“I do pottery and go to sell my compositions to get what to eat with my family. I have no alternative as I have no land to farm or an education to get me work” says Nyiramana.
The administration of Gishubi sector has done all possible to include the 10 families of the historically marginalized people living in Kivugiza village in Gishubi sector in development programs like all other residents.
They were given medical insurance (the local Mutuelle de santé), given cows to rear in Girinka Program, free basic education to their children, involving them in cooperatives, sensitization programs to change their understandings as well as introduce them to technical schools.
Moise Ndungutse the executive secretary of Gishubi sector says “there is hope that the children of historically marginalized people who are now in secondary and technical schools will not go into family businesses of pottery and will change the understanding of their parents.”
There are 10 families of the historically marginalized people and only 2 of these families rely for survival on pottery. Just like other families let go of the family legacy, the 2 families will eventually let it go if they get what to do for survival.