Rwanda | Kamonyi: Basket weavers decry lack of market

Located in 15 kilometers from Kamonyi town, “Duterimbere Karama” cooperative has no market but wait for trade fairs and tourists to sell their products.
“Duterimbere Karama” cooperative makes baskets (agaseke) and other items like trays, chairs, bags, jewelry and decorative pieces all made from traditional materials.
Cooperative members revealed to the reporter that basket making has enabled them earn a living though the market is small due to the fact that they are based in a rural area.
Beatrice Mukandanga, Vice president of the cooperative expresses that crafts are on demand. “We are now on the big order a client placed but we do not make much to display since we are not sure of the market,” she adds.
When an order is placed, the cooperative buys materials for us and every member gets a half of the money on the items she or he has made and another half to the cooperative treasury, Mukandaga adds.
She gives an example of a traditional chair which is crafted at Rwf15000. When an order is placed, any member that makes the chair gets Rwf7500.
Talking of the quality on the market, Yvonne Uwanyirigira, cooperative treasurer revealed that during August 2012 International trade fair, all products they had made were sold out.
To secure big markets, “Duterimbere Karama” cooperative members wish that a forum for basket weavers in Kamonyi district is set up, where they can meet and share information of where to target markets.
On the contrary, Innocent Habimana, in charge of cooperatives in the district reveals that there is a forum for five basket weaving cooperatives in Kamonyi but it is dormant.
As a way of marketing their names and products, Habimana says the district gets stands for the basket weavers’ cooperatives in trade shows and organizes trainings for the members.
Started in 2007, Agaseke development project was initiated by Jeannette Kagame and over 2000 women in town and rural areas of Rwanda are in this project.