Ministry of Education

The mission of the Ministry of Education is to transform the Rwandan citizen into skilled human capital for socio-economic development of the country by ensuring equitable access to quality education focusing on combating illiteracy, promotion of science and technology, critical thinking and positive values.

High Education Council

The Government of Rwanda is supporting the transformation of higher education so that it is fit for purpose and internationally credible. Higher education institutions are required to deliver graduates, research, consultancy services and community engagement to support the social and economic development of Rwanda.

Rwanda Education Board

The mission of Rwanda Education Board is to fast-track education development in Rwanda by enabling education sector growth. The scope of our work includes all aspects related to the development of the education sector. This involves working with and addressing the needs of schools of all sizes (Public, Private) and brings education on the same range as the East African Community.

Workforce Development Agency

Workforce Development Authority (WDA) is an institutional framework to provide a strategic response to the skills development challenges facing the country across all sectors of the economy. As the country embarks on developing sector development strategies under EDPRS, the issue of capacity which largely constrained implementation of the programs under PRSP 1 is among the most important priorities to be addressed.

Public Sector Capacity Building Secretariat

The PSCBS exists to guide, facilitate and coordinate the implementation of capacity building interventions in the public sector.

RDB – Human capital development

As the Rwandan economy grows at a rapid pace, so will the demand for skilled capacity to fill the growing number of opportunities generated in the private sector. In addition, the private sector depends on different government institutions to provide them with efficient, quality services to establish themselves and grow their business in Rwanda. RDB recognizes that low skills and weak institutions will limit Rwanda’s growth if not simultaneously addressed along with developing the economic clusters and investments.