Ministry of Health

The Ministry of Health is committed to improving the Rwandan population’s health situation by strengthening the quality of service delivered and providing access to treatment through universal health insurance coverage (Mutuelles de Santé). To enhance public health services, we are in the midst of a deep reform which will address the major traditional problems of health as well as the new challenges posed by the pandemic of HIV/AIDS.

Website: http://www.moh.gov.rw/

Rwanda Biomedical Centre

Rwanda Biomedical Centre’s mission is to promote quality affordable and sustainable health care services to the population through innovative and evidence based interventions and practices guided by ethics and professionalism.

Website: http://www.rbc.gov.rw/

National Reference Laboratory

The National Reference Laboratory (NRL) was established in July, 2003 by the Rwandan Government to develop institutional infrastructure, laboratory network, research and links at national and international level. The NRL structure comprises of the Managing Director (overall chief executive), and different Units reflecting the various core functions of the NRL. Click here to read more about the composition and functioning of the different departments.

Website: http://www.nrl.gov.rw/

Rwanda Social Security Board

Rwanda Social Security Board (RSSB) was established by the law No.45/2010 of 14/12/2010 that determines its mission, organization and functioning. This institution was established after the merger of Social Security Fund of Rwanda (SSFR) with Rwanda Health Insurance Fund (RAMA).
The mandate of the institution is to administer social security in the country. The branches currently managed include; pension, occupational risks and health insurance. The benefits offered under the different branches are; old age, invalidity, survivorship, work injuries and work related diseases and health insurance benefits. RSSB as a financial institution is supervised by the National Bank of Rwanda according to the banking law N°55/2007 of 30/11/2007 where as its activities are overseen by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.