Ministry of Justice

The vision of Ministry of Justice is to promote and facilitate the Rule of law in the country by emphasizing equality of all persons before the law and ensuring that judicial institutions are effective and efficient in the provision of legal services to the public.

Website: www.minijust.gov.rw

Gacaca Courts

In order to expedite the delivery of justice, the Rwandan Government has returned to the traditional Gacaca Court system. The local Gacaca courts, meaning ‘justice on the grass’, combine traditional local justice with modern jurisprudence, with the aim of achieving truth, justice, and reconciliation. Upon its completion, it will have been the most thorough process in bringing the rank and file of genocide to justice. Over 100,000 inmates have been indicted for crimes of genocide.

Website: http://www.inkiko-gacaca.gov.rw

NURC

The policy for unity and reconciliation of Rwandans is a fundamental process for peace and development in our country. Through raising awareness, conducting research and implementing national programs for unity and reconciliation, National Unity and Reconciliation Commission is striving for a peaceful, united and prosperous nation.
Website: http://www.nurc.gov.rw

Supreme Court

In Rwanda, The Supreme Court is the highest ranking court of the country, placed under its President’s authority, the essential mission of the Supreme Court is to ensure equitable law enforcement according to the logic of complementarity of powers in a democratic society.

Website: http://www.supremecourt.gov.rw/

TIG

TIG is an innovative punishment programmer which allows people convicted of participating in the genocide to serve part of their sentences doing community services, is helping to put in place a new form of justice in Rwanda, which focuses on ideas of unity and reconciliation. TIG, a French acronym meaning “community service as an alternative penalty to imprisonment”, was introduced in 2005.
Website:

Website: www.tig.gov.rw/

Ombudsman

The Office of Ombudsman is an independent public institution which was established in 2003 by the Constitution of Republic of Rwanda of 4 th June 2003 in article 182. Its Organization and Functioning were established by law n° 25/2003 of 15th August 2003 which was modified and complemented by law n° 17/2005 of 18th August 2005. It became operational in 2004.

Website: http://www.ombudsman.gov.rw

Rwanda Correctional Services

RCS has transformed itself into an institution that rehabilitates convicts to become responsible citizens when they eventually serve their time rather than a punishment oriented body. On top of this, the institution has increasingly become income generating rather than a funding consuming body.

Website: http://www.rcs.gov.rw/