Private Sector Federation

Private sector representation started in Rwanda prior to 1994, in the form of the Rwanda Chamber of Commerce. A government driven institution, the Chamber of Commerce exhibited three important limitations: lack of autonomy, weak representation, and lack of relevant services. As a result, Industrialists, Banks, Insurers, Transporters, and Women created stand-alone associations to serve their needs.

Website: http://www.psf.org.rw/

Ministry of Trade and Industry

The Ministry of Trade and Industry has a vision to achieve accelerated and sustained economic growth led by a dynamic and competitive private sector. The Ministries mission is to facilitate Rwanda’s economic transformation through enabling a competitive private sector integrated into regional and global markets, while ensuring a level playing field and the protection of consumers.

Website: www.minicom.gov.rw

Rwanda Development Board

The Rwanda Development Board was set up by bringing together all the government agencies responsible for the entire investor experience under one roof. This includes key agencies responsible for business registration, investment promotion, environmental clearances, privatization and specialist agencies which support the priority sectors of ICT and tourism as well as SMEs and human capacity development in the private sector

Website: http://www.rdb.rw/

RBA (Rwanda Bankers Association)

The Rwanda Bankers’ Association (the Association) was established and acts as a forum for the banking sector. Any Banks licensed by the National Bank of Rwanda pursuant to Chapter II, Article 5 of the Law is eligible for Membership of the Association. The National Bank of Rwanda will not be eligible for membership but a representative may be invited to any meeting should it be felt that their presence would be of benefit.

Website: http://www.rba.rw/

Banque Rwandaise de Developpement

The Rwanda Development Bank, “BRD” a Public Company Limited by Shares, with a share capital of RWF 7,000,021,000, registered at the Officer of the Registrar General, whose company code n° 1000003547, its incorporation certificate issued on 7/7/2011 and a banking license n°003 issued by the National Bank of Rwanda on August 11, 2009. BRD was incorporated on August 5, 1967.

Website: http://www.brd.rw/

CMAC

The Capital Market Advisory Council was established by the Prime Minister’s decree of March 2007, to guide in the development of a capital market in Rwanda. The board of Capital Market Advisory Council consists of 7 non-executive directors representing different interest groups appointed by the Minister of Finance. The board works through periodic board and committee meetings and is answerable to the Minister of Finance.

The day to day business of CMAC is run by the management headed by an Executive director and senior technical staff housed at the CMAC secretariat on 5th Floor Ecobank Building in Kigali.

Website: http://www.cma.rw/

ORG

The Office of the Registrar General (ORG) was established in 2008 to continue the functions of the Rwanda Commercial Registration Agency. ORG is housed in the RDB as a division under the Investment Promotion and Implementation Department.

Website: http://org.rdb.rw/