Ministry of Sports & Culture

The Ministry of Sports and Culture was established with a mission to develop, coordinate, monitor, evaluate and support implementation of policies and strategies that promote Sports and Cultural development initiatives that lead to the economic and social transformation as well as to a productive and patriotic generation.

Website: http://www.minispoc.gov.rw/

Ministry of Youth & ICT

The Ministry of Youth and ICT develops, coordinates, monitors, evaluates and supports implementation of policies and strategies that promote youth development aimed at economic and social transformation and a productive and patriotic generation. The ministry is also charged with integrating and disseminating ICT through policy, strategy and action to empower both public and private sectors, in order to accelerate the transformation of Rwanda into a middle-income economy and information society by 2020.

Website: www.miniyouth.gov.rw

FERWAFA

Website: http://www.ferwafa.rw/

Rwanda Academy of Language

Link: http://www.miniyouth.gov.rw/Promotion-of-Culture

FESPAD

Website: http://www.fespad.co.rw/

National Institute of Museum

Website: http://www.museum.gov.rw/

Kigali Genocide Memorial Centre

The Kigali Memorial Centre was opened on the 10th Anniversary of the Rwandan Genocide, in April 2004. The Centre is built on a site where over 250,000 people are buried. These graves are a clear reminder of the cost of ignorance. The Centre is a permanent memorial to those who fell victim to the genocide and serves as a place for people to grieve those they lost.

Website: http://www.kigalimemorialcentre.org/

National Commission for the Fight Against Genocide (CNLG)

Website: http://cnlg.gov.rw/

Rwanda National Ballet (Urukerereza)

Rwanda like any other country has a culture and our culture is among the best thing we have in this country, should be taken into account and promoted from generations to generations. This is among the important elements which pushed Government to promote culture. This was realised through setting up a national cultural troupe. Urukerereza is a ballet that gathers artists from different districts and regions of Rwanda for the purpose of promoting, conserving and preserving the Rwandan culture through songs, dances, drama, etc.

Urukerereza was created in 1974 by the constitution of the Republic of Rwanda, Presidential order N° 301/11 of 24th March 1974 of Gazette of the Republic of Rwanda, 1974. p. 78 acceding the national ballet of Rwanda.

Link: http://www.rwandagateway.org/spip.php?article211

Itorero ry’ Igihugu

Historically in Rwanda the Itorero ry’Igihugu was a Rwandans’ school; it was the channel through which the nation could convey messages to the people regarding national culture in areas such as, language, patriotism, social relations, sports, dancing and songs, defense of the nation etc. As a result young citizens could grow with an understanding and attachment to their culture. The participants were encouraged to discuss different national programs and the positive values of Rwandan culture. The Itorero tradition also provided the formative training for leaders of the nation. Itorero participants understood that cultural values could help them develop their judgment, psychology, work and mutual aid, life and collaboration with others.

Link: http://www.nurc.gov.rw/reconciliation-tools/itorero.html