On International Peacekeeping Day, Rwanda’s peacekeepers continue to protect lives and build communities

Kigali, 29 May 2013

On May 29 each year the United Nations honours the contributions of international peacekeepers. This year’s theme is ‘UN Peacekeeping: Adapting to New Challenges’ with a focus on adapted polices, revising structures and establishing new practices to increase peacekeeping efficiency in order to save more lives.

As blue helmets are honored around the world, Rwanda acknowledges its men and women who have served and continue to serve in peacekeeping operations for their high level of professionalism, dedication and courage.

“We honour Rwandan soldiers and police officers who continue to show exemplary professionalism and discipline, fulfilling above and beyond their duty to protect and participating in the rebuilding of communities. They put their lives in harm’s way, sometimes losing them and Rwandans and the communities they protect are grateful,” said Brig. Gen. Joseph Nzabamwita, Rwanda Defence Forces Spokesperson.

“We would like to particularly recognize the service of Sergeant-Major Jackson Muhanguzi, Sgt. Jean Claude Tubanambazi, Sgt. Ally Hassan Bisangwa, Pte. Innocent Muhayimana and Police Superintendent Camarade Rukabu who died last year serving in UN peacekeeping missions in Darfur and Haiti. They died fulfilling their professional duty of service to mankind,” said Brig. Gen. Nzabamwita.

Rwanda is the sixth major troop and police contributing country in the UN, with over 4,000 troops, 400 police (150 female officers), and 13 military observers serving in different countries under UN missions including South Sudan, Sudan, Haiti, Liberia, Guinea-Bissau and Ivory Coast. Rwanda was the first country to send peacekeepers to Darfur.

Rwanda is also the second highest contributor of female police officers worldwide and the first highest contributor of female police officers in Africa.

Rwanda’s role has been significant, including providing leaders for the most challenging UN Missions, such as the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) under the command of Lt. Gen. Patrick Nyamvumba who just concluded three terms this year as Force Commander.

For the first time in history of peace keeping missions, Rwanda peacekeepers introduced aggressive peacekeeping, used women peacekeepers for protection of vulnerable women and girls in situations of conflict and engaged in activities to foster conflict resolution mechanisms such as community works “Umuganda” in Darfur, introduction of energy saving stoves called “Rondereza”, and construction of critical infrastructure such as schools, markets, roads in mission areas.

Today, Rwandan peacekeepers will join citizens in their area of deployments and will mark the day working on projects that benefit the local population.

RELATED ARTICLES 	 

    Rwanda commemorates World Environment Day rewarding best performers in the public and private sector
    Ten years into the Constitution, Rwanda pushes forward in delivering for citizens
    German Development Minister pledges continued support to Rwanda on two day visit
    On International Peacekeeping Day, Rwanda’s peacekeepers continue to protect lives and build communities
    The first peat fired power plant in Africa to be operational by June 2014 in Rusizi District
    STATEMENT BY H.E PAUL KAGAME, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA AT THE 21ST ORDINARY SESSION OF THE ASSEMBLY OF THE UNION

	 